[blues song playing]
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-
♪ I put a spell on you ♪
♪ 'Cause you're mine... ♪
PILLS MIGRENO-NERVOSIN KOGUTEK
FLU. COLD. HEADACHES. TOOTHACHES
[Helena] What kind of person
are you looking for?
A rich wife with a hundred grand.
In return I've got lots of tripe.
Who could resist that?
Someone who is put together.
highbrow. and well-mannered.
I'm just not sure
how to phrase it so that...
So. only men respond to it.
[typing]
[Helena] Beautiful woman seeks husband.
What she lacks in money. she makes up
for in elegance and femininity.
I don't mind an ugly broad.
so she don't cheat.
[Helena] Applications along with a photo
should be sent.
[typing continues]
To "Miss pretty as a picture."
Oh. well...
To "The King of Hearts."
All right. get these ready
for print. Mr. Cajmer.
[Cajmer] Will do. ma'am.
[instrumental music playing]
FORTUNA AMANDI. classified ads
[dog barks in distance]
[Zuza crying]
[intense music playing]
[door closes]
Which one?
Her. Zuza.
Go on. scram!
[kisses]
Let's go.
Are you deaf? Outside.
Come on.
Bite down hard. kid.
Grab the table and don't let go.
[Zuza shuddering]
You'll be all right.
[groans in pain]
[breathing heavily]
[screaming in pain]
WOMEN'S HELL
[vehicles honking]
[Helena] Are you here about an ad?
[Ewa] Oh. another one?
"About three months ago.
I ran a personal ad
and a man replied to it.
I only knew him by his pen name.
"Pure-hearted Jan."
After corresponding. we arranged a date
and at our first meeting.
I was then raped by him."
[Ewa] "I confide
this horrible secret in you
hoping you will ensure
that this man does not make
further acquaintances with other women
through your magazine."
There's no name. right?
Just "Pure-hearted Jan."
Look in our files for anyone by that name.
[Ewa] Hmm.
[door opens]
[man] Patient is 30 years old.
Multiple births.
Which we can tell by?
Mr. Heckmann.
come. the vagina won't bite you. Come.
[others laughing]
[Emil] Uh. I see some scarring
from perineal tears.
Uh... urethral damage from many births
is my assumption.
Well. here.
Now. let me see what we've got here.
Uh...
No. Mr. Heckmann.
Palpation. please. if you would.
[speaking indistinctly]
[Emil] We have a closed cervix.
Rather enlarged uterus.
-She's pregnant.
-[Kasia] What?
Past the first trimester.
No. Doctor. I can't be.
Good. Heckmann.
Mr. Jedlicki.
you're gonna walk us
through a natural delivery.
You can get dressed. ma'am.
-[men speaking indistinctly]
-Careful.
[Kasia] Please. doctor.
My husband lost his job.
I have seven kids to feed.
and my youngest can't walk.
If you don't help me. I might as well jump
in front of a train.
I'm not a real doctor yet.
I'll pay you.
Miss. abortion is an illegal procedure.
I'll speak with Dr. Łabęda.
Come tomorrow night. okay?
-My shift begins at eight.
-[Dr. Łabęda] Mr. Heckmann!
I'll try to convince him.
[Dr. Łabęda] Face presentation. please.
[men laughing]
Doctor?
What is it?
You know this won't stop her.
Some butcher will gladly do it.
And he'll use some spoke for the job
and make her my problem.
We always see them again.
Poor woman.
Not even 30. but clearly unwell.
-It'd be breaking the law.
-But I could help her.
Every doctor has
his own personal graveyard.
You'll learn that soon enough.
If this patient were rich.
we wouldn't be hesitating. would we?
Hmm.
There are so many idealists in school.
then they end up
and vanish after graduation.
When did you last have a proper meal?
How about you go home
and take that pretty sister of yours
to Engler's for dinner?
I've got a table there.
Go have some fun. for once.
Kochanowicz. you're finally gonna
settle down one day?
Don't count on it. ma'am.
But modern marriages don't have to mean
the end of fun and adventure anymore.
Take Miss Krzywicka for one. And. Boy.
Ewa. archive the correspondence please.
Mr. Cajmer!
Um... Yep. printing now.
[telephone ringing]
Ewa...
Maks. I'm going to Herze's with Ewa.
Oh. Mr. Boy-Żeleński.
Good morning.
[kisses]
A beautiful progressive woman
like yourself
-must surely have views on women's rights.
-My wife is in charge of the ads.
You write about women's rights.
[Boy-Żeleński] Listen to this.
A washerwoman from Mielec
killed her five month old.
smothering it with soil.
The court sentenced her to hang.
She had 12 kids at home.
That justifies murder?
Well. it doesn't.
but I believe it makes us complicit
if we don't fight for birth control.
Men want to fight for contraception?
Women should choose for themselves.
not the legal system.
About what?
It's better to kill a child
before or after birth?
[Maks] Darling. you should go.
Don't want to be late.
It's a sensitive topic
and really not for us.
We focus on marriage here.
[door opens]
As you see. it's a touchy subject
and stirs up people's emotions.
Women do this to themselves.
if I could only make them aware--
But strong emotions
are our bread and butter here.
I mean. with your talents and mine.
we can stir up all the emotions we want.
So. you're saying you'll run the article?
If it's for progress. I'm on board.
I knew you were a stand-up guy.
Good.
Did I mention I'm a writer. too?
[instrumental music playing]
[Helena] Stop it. Don't be so nervous.
We do have "Pure-hearted Jan"
in the files.
Oh. you checked?
Looks like he's only replied
to just one ad so far.
A man named. "Pure-hearted..."
-It's clearly a fake name.
-It's the one he gave.
The girl's name is Zuzanna Heckmann.
but... can we believe her story?
It'd be best if Uncle Maks
handled it. don't you think?
Don't worry about it right now.
-She could just be a liar.
-[Helena] Ewa!
Some guy dumped her. and now she wants
-to destroy his and our reputation.
-[Helena] Please!
-I mean. what if our clients find out?
-I'll handle them.
Focus. Your big day's coming up.
Look how pretty you are.
[Ewa] I'll die of boredom with Ludwik.
Just sitting at home.
And would Bruno give you
the life that you want?
[Ewa] How do you...
[both chuckle]
We're just friends. and...
-Ah?
-He lends me books sometimes.
Mm-hmm.
Well. I hate to burst your bubble
but those passionate. sensual moments
tend to fade over time.
[both laugh]
[breathing heavily]
[thuds]
[Ewa] Helena?
Auntie? Helena?
Someone help!
[cycle whirring]
[dogs bark in distance]
[keys jingling]
[door closes]
She's so messy.
Zuza?
Your big brother is taking you out.
Zuza. you sleeping?
[train chugging]
[intense music playing]
[Emil sobbing]
Zuza. Zuza. Zuza...
[crying]
[door creaking]
[Maks] Darling. I'm home.
Sorry I'm late.
I had to grab a drink with Boy.
What a stand-up guy. We had a great time!
[kissing]
[Maks humming]
Well. it sounds to me like you. sir.
will have to start
leaving the office earlier.
[Maks] It's such a perfect night out.
I walked all the way here
and had this little tune
dancing around in my head.
[humming]
[playing piano]
[singing in Polish]
[laughs]
I have a little surprise for you. too.
[chuckles] What kind of surprise?
-For quite some time...
-For quite some time.
you thought I was a genius!
[laughs]
Uh... For quite some time now.
my head's been feeling all dizzy.
And today I had a bout of nausea.
I didn't want to say
anything earlier and jinx it.
So. does that mean...
Oh. sweetheart.
[kissing]
Oh! My son!
-[kissing]
-[laughing]
Your daddy loves you.
And if it's a girl?
And if it's a girl.
she'll be as beautiful as her mother.
[laughing]
[train chugging]
[intense music playing]
Mademoiselle Zizi.
You knew the deceased. Superintendent?
She was a dancer.
Her legs were incredible.
What a shame.
[Emil] For a week. I've basically
been living at the clinic.
I just came home.
Emil Heckmann.
She's my sister.
Well. it would appear your sister
committed a serious crime. Mr. Heckmann.
You practice at Dr. Łabęda's
gynecology clinic. don't you?
If I had performed it.
she would still be here. sir.
Please write that down.
Add that this only happens
thanks to this backwards legal system.
And both of you are complicit!
Take that statement.
I didn't even know she was pregnant.
Let me guess. You didn't know she danced
in burlesque shows as Zizi either.
She was a ballet dancer.
-She studied with Felicja Adamowicz.
-Sure. kid.
The autopsy will be crucial.
But I'm sure you're aware. Mr. Heckmann.
I'll cooperate.
Just don't go skipping town.
[intense music playing]
You may get dressed. ma'am.
[Maks] Well. Doctor? Any good news for us?
[Dr. Łabęda] I'm afraid
there's no pregnancy.
I'm very sorry.
Well. what about the dizzy spells?
She told me she was faint and nauseous!
A bad reaction to arsenic. that's all.
I recommend you to discontinue it
and let's change the treatment.
Or maybe change our doctor.
Another year of your efforts.
and we still have nothing to show for it.
Professor. I'm 34 years old.
We don't have time to waste.
[Dr. Łabęda] Here.
-Thank you.
-There is a new procedure...
that I recommend for infertile women.
Where we would implant a donor ovary
in the abdominal wall.
A donor? I'm not sure I understand.
Transplants from the deceased
are the future in medicine. ma'am.
The method isn't fully proven yet.
but neither are many other breakthroughs.
now widely used in medicine.
Such as X-rays or insulin. for example.
But you would be transplanting it
and putting it in my body?
Oh. no. not me. No.
But we can bring Dr. Voronoff from Paris.
and he would perform it.
A brilliant specialist
and believer of this method.
He's done hundreds of such procedures.
-How soon?
-Maks.
Darling. please.
We'll discuss it at home
and get back to you.
[door opens]
[engine running]
I don't want to argue.
I'll drive you home.
I still have things to take care of.
What could be more important?
I'm so exhausted.
I've been taking arsenic for months.
I'm so tired.
I have to rest. Maks.
-Then quit the editorial job.
-But I love my job.
So. then. are you giving up?
This procedure is risky.
Do you really want this for us?
I wanted children.
With you.
But if you're not sure anymore--
-I am.
-Are you?
[Helena] Mm-hmm.
Then prove it.
[paper boy shouting indistinctly]
Fresh papers here.
hot off the Warsaw presses.
Read it while it's hot.
Fresh papers here.
You got it. sir.
Here you are.
Emil Heckmann?
What are you doing here?
Can we talk somewhere?
Is Zizi feeling any better?
We all miss her at school.
She's been absent six months
and no one's heard of you there.
Just ask Zuza.
Well. Zuza's dead.
You're lying.
Fela. what the hell did you do?
[men in street shouting indistinctly]
[Fela] Here.
This was our dressing room.
We danced together here for six months.
[woman] Wow.
Give him a little quickie. all right?
Oh. get lost. Mańka.
I said beat it!
Be that way.
[Fela] Get out.
[intense music playing]
NOTEBOOK
Zizi
[Emil] You got her into this.
-[Fela] She wanted this life.
-Oh. really?
Why did she never tell me about it?
Would you have let her perform if she did?
She wanted to tell you once we made it.
This shithole isn't where you make it.
[woman whistles] Fela. move it. will you?
[Fela] Jeez!
Where did Ordonówna start?
And Pola Negri?
Zizi always dreamed of acting
and singing in the movies.
Help me.
[woman] Ah. okay.
All right. are you guys ready?
It's almost show time!
Any idea who the father was?
She only told me
what she cared to tell me.
Now get out of here or Lew will kill me.
Lew?
[jazz band playing]
[Lew] Oh. look who decided
to wander in at this hour!
-[Fela] I'm sorry.
-Apologies! Apologies!
What's going on?
Seriously.
What do you want?
You little shit!
[moaning]
Get the fuck out of here.
Which one of you dragged that man in here?
Huh?
Turn that off.
[music stops playing]
Let me serve you something?
Did my husband say when he'd be back?
Uh. he just said not to wait for him.
Tell him I said the same when he shows up.
[door opens]
[slow instrumental music playing]
[metal clattering]
[chittering]
[door opens]
[door shuts]
Same as last time.
Róża. even sugar
has gotten more expensive.
[Róża sighs]
You greedy little bastard.
[sniffs] Mmm.
Some first class goods there.
[Daydream by Wallace Collection playing]
That's a good girl.
-Password?
-Tenderness.
Come in. ma'am.
[laughter]
[Róża] Helena!
My darling. you haven't been here in ages.
I heard the wonderful news.
Congratulations.
False alarm. actually.
[sighs]
I want to dance.
Why is there no one to dance with?
Calm down. Sit and tell me everything.
I don't want to.
I want to forget just for a moment.
[laughs] Then lie down here.
There you go. Come.
You'll love this.
Mmm.
Opium.
[sighs]
Yes.
Your husband should see you
in this moment.
How confident and beautiful you are. dear.
Just let it in.
[exhales]
[Róża] Ready?
Now open up and look.
This will help you.
[camera shutter clicking]
[Róża] You are free.
[Helena] Mmm.
[Róża] Beautiful.
[Helena exhales]
Your husband needs you this juicy.
[Helena] Mmm.
[Róża] Go home and show him.
Show him the goddess that you are.
[Helena exhales]
[classical music playing]
-[camera shutter clicks]
-[exhales]
[camera shutter clicks]
[man panting]
[panting]
[grunting]
-[exhales]
-[music stops playing]
[upbeat music playing over speakers]
[Róża laughing in distance]
Ludwik! [laughs]
[speaking indistinctly. laughs]
Maks! Maks! Come here. look at this.
[Róża laughs]
No.
No. [laughs. speaks indistinctly]
[Maks] Are you really switching
from tires to condoms?
[Róża sighs]
[sighs] My dear brother. I told you
to throw out those slippers.
You're just jealous.
-[Róża] Mm.
-[kisses]
-[chuckles]
-[Maks] Okay. Okay. Hold that.
[Ludwik] Oh. thank you.
-Take this.
-[Maks] All right. let me see.
Yeah.
[sighs]
"Your heart will break before one of our
super sturdy Eros Ultras ever will.
We guarantee it." [laughs]
"Rubber products.
Ludwik Apostołowicz and company."
It has to be written in bold.
Although. [sighs]
I mean. 15 bucks a box...
...for only three to a pack.
that's pricey.
Give me a discount
and I'll give you one. too.
-[laughs]
-[Róża] For God's sakes. boys.
-there's women in the room.
-[Maks laughing]
[Ewa] You know. Mom.
any taxi driver will sell you one
for just one zloty.
Ewa.
They buy them from the clerks
and resell them to passengers.
Hmm. And cigarette packs.
so no one notices.
-[Róża] Jesus Christ.
-Just a zloty?
-Mm-hmm.
-How would a young lady know
what those drivers do?
-Well--
-Why don't you bring your aunt
a cup. sweetheart?
Looks like the help is slacking. [laughs]
How do you feel this morning?
My sister told me.
Uh. I'm glad.
-Oh. yeah?
-[Maks] Yes.
Glad about what?
Voronoff will help you have your baby.
He's at the top of his field.
you're in good hands with him.
Well. I won't be needing this anymore.
[chuckles softly]
[footsteps receding]
[Róża chuckles]
Excuse me.
Helena. hold on.
Where are you going?
That must have been some strong opium.
Because I don't remember agreeing
to having a dead woman's ovary
put inside of me.
Professor Voronoff and Doctor Łabęda--
Are gonna charge an arm and a leg.
I won't put my body through it.
And what's your backup?
-You won't be a goddess forever.
-[sighs]
Maks is in his prime.
Eventually. he'll find
someone younger than you.
[laughs] You're a hypocrite.
you know that?
I'm a woman. too.
For us. it's better to die
than stop being alive.
Auntie.
Ludwik's told me to go to the office
and collect my things.
[Róża] I approve. Work gives you wrinkles.
Auntie.
Did you hear about the Heckmann girl?
Who?
You know? The letter. "Pure-hearted Jan"?
Well. she's dead.
Uh...
How do you know that?
[Ewa] I read it in today's paper.
She was a fallen woman.
died from an illegal abortion.
-[door opens]
-[footsteps approaching]
Time to go home. Mr. Heckmann.
The doctor hates sleepyheads.
Why didn't you wake me before?
Was I supposed to?
I was expecting a patient.
Katarzyna Gawron. Pregnant.
I was up all night.
I'm telling you. no one came.
-[footsteps receding]
-[door opens. shuts]
[Konieczny]
Katarzyna Gawron. 29 years old.
[Janeczek] Another back alley abortion?
Every year. I autopsy 200 women
who underwent abortions
and died from acute blood infection.
And that's just a fraction
of them. Superintendent.
[slow. mysterious music playing]
Here it is. Zuzanna Heckmann.
[phone ringing]
[phone continues ringing]
[man speaking indistinctly]
"A young artist seeks love
and will fulfill the dreams
of a middle-aged man.
Someone cultured. intelligent. and kind.
She seeks a kindred spirit. someone
she can share the rest of her life with.
Courageous."
Signed: "Courageous"
What's this about?
Sorry. ma'am. Uh...
I'm looking for Mrs. Wróblewska.
Editor Wróblewska.
You found her.
-To post an ad. you need to--
-No. I'm here for work.
Though. if you can find me one.
I wouldn't mind a rich husband. [laughs]
Hanka Stalówna.
Helena Wróblewska.
[chuckles]
I'm sorry. but...
who hired you and in what capacity?
-Maks Wróblewski.
-[laughs]
[Hanka] As the new assistant.
[Helena] Mm-hmm.
Hey. what is this?
[music stops playing]
Just playing a song. sir.
Jarosy. what is this?
[sighs] Uh...
It was written by that man over there.
Maksymilian Wróblewski.
That's his name.
How much do we pay him
to choose a different career?
[laughs] He promised us free advertising.
Uh... [sighs]
In a marriage magazine. Uh. uh...
Well. [clears throat]
So. unfortunately...
Unfortunately. Mr. Wróblewski.
we can't include your waltz
in our new program.
Uh... [stammering] B-b-b-but.
but it's just that we already have
a piece very similar to it. [chuckles]
Written by our very own literary director.
Mr. Julian Tuwim.
Oh. really?
I can't afford to be ruffling
Mr. Tuwin's feathers.
He has pull
with all the critics in the city.
Uh. they'd destroy us.
Please relay this to Mr. Tuwim.
-[Jarosy] Yes?
-That I...
...have quite a bit of pull too.
And I'm not afraid to use it.
[slow instrumental music playing]
Thank you.
Ewa.
[footsteps approaching]
What are you doing here?
I'm here because I... [sighs]
...want you to have this.
Ewa.
I can't accept it. I'm Jewish.
Keep it.
Please take it.
It was a present.
My mom got it to protect me.
and now it'll protect you.
I hope you're happy with your decision.
I just need to convince my husband
to let me come back here.
I wouldn't let you convince me.
Marriage is just a formality.
Everyone does it. it'll be all right.
Ewa.
I believe in one true love.
In marriage.
I want a family with you.
I don't want to have to share you
with someone else.
Don't leave me. Bruno.
I'm sorry.
[kissing]
[piano music playing]
[breathing heavily]
[stomps]
[stomping]
[piano music continues playing]
[footsteps approaching]
[Maks] I wouldn't drink too much. darling.
-We're going out.
-[sighs]
Some files have gone missing
from the archive.
We got two invitations
to the grand opening.
Go get ready.
-What opening?
-[Maks] A clinic or something.
I don't really know.
What matters is Boy will be there.
I'll run his article. and...
he'll handle Tuwim for me.
Maks. the Heckmann girl is dead.
-[unpleasant chords play abruptly]
-The one who ran an ad in our magazine.
Someone went through and
destroyed her and her attacker's files.
We're mixed up in a crime.
We run ads. simple as that.
They pay and we run them.
Did you remove her ad?
[Maks] Why does it matter?
Best not stick your nose
where it doesn't belong.
[Helena] We're shielding him.
It's discretion. my dear.
It's what we do best.
And if there's another victim?
If you're that upset.
you could always quit.
Go get ready.
[slow instrumental music playing]
[Tadeusz] Ladies and the few gentlemen.
-Excuse me.
-Hello.
In Warsaw alone. an estimated
20.000 miscarriages
occur each and every year.
-Nationwide. it may be 200.000.
-Hey. Good to see you.
And that's a conservative estimate.
It's likely to be more.
-[woman] Mrs. Wróblewska.
-[Helena] .
[Tadeusz] Doctors estimate
that as many as half
end in the women's death.
The Conscious Motherhood Clinic
is meant to make women
more aware of all the options
to prevent unwanted pregnancy.
Because some are better off prevented.
This is the beginning
of an awareness campaign
to decrease preventable deaths.
-Bravo. Boy!
-[man 2] Yes!
-[man 3] Bravo!
-[crowd applauding]
[man 4] Hear. hear. hear.
[Tadeusz] In this effort.
we are helped by remarkable people
like Dr. Justyna Budzińska-Tylicka.
-[man] Bravo.
-[crowd cheer]
And Dr. Herman Rubinraut.
Thank you.
I'm also proud to present
our social activist
-from the medical school.
-[man 5] Hear. hear.
[Tadeusz] Miss Helena Wojnarska.
And Mr. Emil Heckmann.
[man coughs]
[Tadeusz] Mr. Heckmann.
are you here with us?
[indistinct chattering]
Emil Heckmann.
[crowd applauding]
Doctor. do you mind if I say a few words?
You have the floor.
[indistinct chatter]
[Emil clears throat]
Her name was Zuzanna.
She was 17.
[indistinct chatter stops]
And she died after a botched abortion.
-What's this about?
-[Emil] Where were we then?
Where were you all when my sister
was bleeding to death?
At some ceremony with more empty rhetoric?
Sipping champagne.
saying meaningless slogans.
telling each other how virtuous we are.
We spout bullshit
about birth control and contraception.
about fighting ignorance.
What did any of us really do
to prevent what happened to Zuza?
You all pat yourselves on the back...
...for pitying the suffering of others.
How compassionate you are.
Bravo. you should be proud.
Especially you. Doctor.
It's your specialty after all.
[indistinct chatter]
-Hold this.
-Helena!
Helena!
[man 6] I don't understand.
This has never been talked about.
[Helena] Mr. Heckmann.
-Mr. Heckmann.
-[car door opens]
I know what happened to your sister.
-[car door shuts]
-[Konieczny] That's him!
A man raped her. [panting]
-Come with us. Mr. Heckmann.
-Who are you?
-[Maks] Helena!
-What are you doing?
Stop! Let go of him!
-[Emil] I didn't do anything!
-[Helena] Stop!
You're under arrest for aborting
your sister's pregnancy.
-What are you doing? Stop it!
-[Emil] It wasn't me!
[Emil grunting. groaning in pain]
-Take him!
-[tense music playing]
[camera shutter clicking]
-[car door opens]
-[Emil] I didn't do it! [grunts]
Find that bastard! I didn't do this!
[camera shutter clicking]
[indistinct chatter]
[tense music continues playing]
[tense music stops playing]
[slow instrumental music playing]
[slow instrumental music fades out]
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today